hey a big hello
from portland oregon yes
welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more with me pam yes i'm
so happy to be here today i have an
awesome awesome guest and his name is
kyle roof he is the founder of high
voltage seo i guess the voltage is so
high you're gonna get electrified today
by the way
his company actually have a specific
product that related to seo that he
offers it's called page optimizer pro
and he's going to tell us what that is
and it has been used by over 1000 seo
and a marketing agency around the world
so we're gonna find that out so welcome
kyle so happy to have you here
thank you for having me pam it's great
to be here so why is seo important the
uh i think the most obvious thing is
that it boosts your online visibility if
you build a beautiful website and then
you don't do any seo i think it's the
equivalent of building a very beautiful
sign for your business and putting it in
the basement you should
build a beautiful website but if you're
not seoing it or you're not you don't
have any seo plan um it's really not
going to do much for you other than just
be kind of a business card that you can
you can
pass around to people one by one
is it uh you know seo it's just like
okay let's add a bunch of keywords to
our website and then we call it seo
optimized no there's a lot more to it
than that and that's actually another
benefit of doing seo is that when you're
building a site it's it's very similar
to writing a book you know there's so
much that needs to go into the
organization of it and seo provides the
frame can provide that framework so you
can write a better book tell a better
story it's a writing book you need to
have you need to build a structure you
need to have an outline
what you are saying is while you're
building your website it's kind of like
constructing your website and seo is can
help you to build a better structure
in addition to just have the right
keywords but you have to think through
in terms of where the keywords will fit
and the way that should be would you
agree that's exactly right and then also
not just the particular keywords but
what types of pages are we building for
our site um you know there are different
uh personas you know the people that are
going to come to your site they're going
to resonate with different things
there needs to be different sections on
your site for the different people that
might be coming who'd be interested in
your products or services
and you have to have a plan for that you
have to have a plan to to to grow the
site in the right way
in the same way you need to grow your
site's authority and you can do that
through the content that you're putting
on the site uh within an seo plan
because you want your site to be seen as
more authoritative to google and in
doing so seo can help you provide that
uh
guidance as well so that you can rank
for better keywords so that you can get
more traffic so that uh hopefully as
you're getting more traffic then you're
getting more uh conversions i have done
seo for my own website and i have
discovered seo can be so hard because
there are so many elements that you have
and the factors you have to take into
account it's you know in the past it's
like oh that's used keywords and but
it's more to it
so can you share with us and what are
some of the minimal requirements
that um you know uh small business
owners or anybody is managing the
website that they have to take into
account
in terms of a search engine optimization
one thing that i do is that i run tests
on google's algorithm and uh i'm
continually running tests on the
algorithm to see what is or is not a
ranking factor
and which factors are the strongest and
what's interesting is that the basics of
seo um stay relatively the same and they
are still also the strongest uh factors
so the most important ones would be your
your page title the title tag so that's
often referred to as the meta title your
h1 which is the title that humans see
in paragraph tags p tags and within the
url
and if you can put your keyword in those
four places you've done probably 60 to
70 of seo right then in there if you
have an older page don't change your url
if you have an older page that's doing
pretty well leave that as is but if
you're doing a brand new page then you
want to make sure to get your your
target keyword in there it's actually
good to know i love that because i did
try to change my url early on when i
started and that was a huge mistake
because it cost like you know 404 error
and it's very hard to actually find so
once you have established url keep the
url the way it is if nothing else do a
redirect would you agree exactly right
the other thing too is that a new url is
a new page to google so it has to
recrawl it so even though you're like
well i've had this page for years google
will just see that all i did was change
the url but google doesn't know that to
google it's a completely different page
it has to completely recrawl and
re-index it and then re-rank it so
you're kind of starting from zero so for
longest time you know marketers have
this tendency of checking something off
and then move on to you know like um
another brand new thing so is seo
something that you can check it off
ever
well
the problem is is that the goal posts
shift so as uh new competitors come into
the space as google does updates things
like that the goal pull shift you need
to check the work that you've done to
make sure that you're still on hitting
the targets that are that are needed for
seo that's one of the more frustrating
parts of it is that you can write a
perfect page today
uh and things might shift a little bit
and while you're not far away from it
you still probably need to tweak things
just a touch so what you are saying is
even a lot of time the marketers will
create content like a blog post and they
will create new blog posts they will
create more blog posts your suggestion
is basically uh from time to time you
actually have to go back and look at
your existing blog post and you have to
optimize it as time goes it's tweaks
more than like a a wholesale
optimization but yeah you do want to
check your work because what you'll
notice is that um there are new
competitors in town
uh or google is favoring something else
slightly more so than it was before and
so you want to make sure that you're
still kind of hitting all those targets
or hitting giving google what it wants
so in a way you cannot check off seo and
that's why i continue to be employed
i love google updates when change
happens that's just better for me every
time like change happened i was like oh
my god what do i what do i need to know
how do i get myself up to date you know
in terms of keeping up with the google's
update or even some of the technologies
out there is so overwhelming sometimes
so that leads to my next question
can can this seo stuff being done by you
know even in-house marketers or
do they have to really
partner with uh seo agency or seo expert
can seo be diy yeah i think what it
comes down to more anything is an
understanding that seo is a
probabilities game you need to put
yourself into the position for the best
opportunity for success no seo
professional is going to be right 100 of
the time but the idea is that the most
successful ones are probably right 70 to
80 of the time so it's better than a
coin flip and so if you can get yourself
into a position where you're better than
a coin flip then sure you can definitely
do
your own seo and then the idea of going
with a professional or going with an
agency is it increases your likelihood
of success obviously you know as a small
business owner i have limited amount of
marketing budget i allocate that to do
many many things
and seo is not necessarily
made to the list initially and then i
try to educate myself about seo and also
the different tools out there and i
purchased tool and i tried to do it
myself but i have to tell everyone it's
actually if you have a budget and if you
don't have time find a good seo expert
or work with seo agency so do you have
any suggestions in terms of how to
select a good solid seo agency one thing
that uh you should be able to get from
the agency is kind of how to do seo the
agencies should be completely
transparent in in what they're doing so
their strategy should be uh you should
know exactly what's going on uh exactly
the strategy and what the expected
outcomes are so that um in fact you
yourself then could learn
seo by watching how the strategy uh is
implemented and how it unfolds so
transparency is is the biggest thing are
they showing you exactly what they're
going to do maybe not is perhaps the
specific technique but you will see the
outcome you know if they put something
here on the web or they put something on
your site that you're able to see it and
evaluate it and and understand what it
is so uh transparency and then also
communication
are they regularly communicating what's
happening how often should the client
demand that seo provide the dashboard
well in our agency we we do a uh a
report and a meeting at the end of the
month or beginning the month with the
idea of like this is this is what we're
going to do you know here are your um
hear your problems here your goals
here's what we're trying to accomplish
these are the techniques that we think
will get there then we do them and then
throughout the month you'll get a couple
of updates hey we're working on this
we're doing that and then at the end of
the month it's a discussion of this is
what we did so we then show the work and
then for the upcoming month then we need
to stay on this track and we need to
continue to do this because we can see x
y or z or we need to shift just a little
bit because we noticed whatever but then
these are now the deliverables so that
each month you know what it should be
delivered and what should be provided
and that there's monitoring and tracking
to that as well what are some common
kpis would you suggest
that
the
clients uh do track or work with their
agencies one of the most important
measurements is impressions impressions
are the amount of times your site is
seen
by humans doing searches to grow
impressions
uh healthy websites healthy pages on
websites are gaining more keywords when
you properly optimize for a primary
keyword so whatever your say your top
level product or services
um
cyber security what's going to happen is
that cyber security page is going to
rank for hundreds
if not more if not into the thousands of
related keywords we call them secondary
keywords or the cluster yeah
cybersecurity is just like a two word
phrase right right so you will start
winning you'll see like these three and
four word phrases you're ranking for and
some of them don't even exist on the
page most don't even exist on the page
and that's because google has associated
this chunk of terms with this primary
keyword so you optimize for that primary
keyword and you start to win the chunk
and then you'll see that a healthy page
is now growing more and more of those
keywords even though they don't exist on
the page at all
and then now you're getting impressions
for those keywords you're getting seen
more and then as you're seeing more
you're getting more clicks so those are
the the three most important kpis are
how many keywords your page is ranking
for how many impressions you're getting
and then how many clicks you're getting
the only other thing to throw in on you
do need to be mindful of conversions i
was thinking oh this is a very top of
the funnel type of the kpi and it really
doesn't help conversion at all you can
talk about the number impression with
the senior management you can talk about
number of clicks with senior management
they don't really care what they care is
what is the conversion rate how many of
them are actually being qualified as a
marketing qualified leads and how many
of them have been converted to sales
qualified the conversion matters then
talk to me in terms of how seo can help
in terms of conversion well ultimately
it's a number game
a numbers game you understand like you
should know how many visitors turn into
a conversion the people come to your
website if you know the ip address or if
somehow you can identify the contact
name and the contact name can somehow be
reconciled with your marketing
automation database or your cim database
then that will come to light in terms of
seeing like oh you know the person who
coming in i actually have a name
associated with it
if you can have that then you can
actually easily identify how is that
person moving
you know through your purchase funnel if
you just only have ip address or if you
just know number of clicks that's not
going to help the thing you identified
there though is kind of what gets
slightly outside it's kind of seo
adjacent where now you're talking about
um what call to action what conversion
points what micro conversions are we
having are we enabling for this traffic
to have and that usually turns into a
giant hole in the marketing strategy
where you know we're getting all this
good traffic and we know it's good
traffic because we can see the keywords
that are bringing the traffic and
they're the ones that we want and then
the right neighborhood but people aren't
converting so now we've got an issue of
um is there a problem with this page you
know that the people won't convert on
this page for some reason is there a
problem with the messaging is there a
problem no do people hate the product or
do people hate the service which happens
um
but seo can then highlight those those
issues where you know when you realize
like hey
we're getting all of this traffic but
it's not converting why is that
especially when you can see that okay
we're not we're not getting weird
keywords right we're not people aren't
coming from things we don't want they're
coming from exactly what we want from
time to time that's you know something
that happens within google too where you
build a page for a specific keyword and
you think you're going to get this type
of traffic but google actually
associates that term with something
slightly off and then what happens is
you get a whole bunch of traffic but
there it's the wrong type of traffic you
know so like you're like oh man
we're killing it but it's not it's not
people that would convert or the people
that we want to get so that does happen
from time to time for sure more often
than not if you're getting the right
type of traffic and you're not getting
the conversions that you you're
anticipating then there's something else
you can look at another element of seo
is the pro you need to constantly um
either update refresh or even add new
content to your website is that true
well what i think you should be doing is
um adding content um
to elevate your own authority so going
after um as you said longer tell
keywords is an example longer phrased
keywords that are in the in the
neighborhood of what you want and they
answer good questions uh related to your
topic your service your products etc but
they aren't exactly target pages they
aren't pages that you're necessarily
that's you don't necessarily want
somebody to convert on this page
but it's the kind of thing that where
you can um give a really good answer uh
a really good explanation about
something that's related to your product
and service you should be creating that
content continually but most of the time
you are talking about seo it tends to be
text driven what about you know podcast
which is more audio driven
um i write a summary i make it look nice
but it really doesn't help in terms of
domain authority per se
i have discovered in terms of the
podcast it seems like you really have to
create blog posts to increase that is
that true
so that's where you might want to
consider using more of the transcript
because that's going to be free content
for you that you didn't have to write um
often though
it looks gross right so you don't
necessarily have to just have a wall of
text on your page you can break it up
within sliders and dropdowns you can be
creative with your css the only thing
that google requires is that you're not
trying to have cloak
or hide the text you know so that google
only sees it but humans don't so if
humans have the ability to see it and
it's obvious that they can see it then
you're within google's guidelines and
again remember the basics though so
think about so what is this podcast
episode about right and then you know
you want to think about a target keyword
that somebody actually might be
searching for that particular
information and then that would go into
your your meta title your page title
your h1 uh within the paragraph text to
make sure that it's in that transcript
if it's not then that can be part of
your description and then it's in the
url and then you hit some of your basics
from there
but okay so tell us where they can find
you
and and and also tell us a little bit
about your page optimizer you know
that's actually probably the best place
to find me if somebody goes to
pageoptimizer.pro which is the website
if they scroll to the bottom in the
footer there's a workshop i do a free
workshop whether you're a pop user or
not
and
it alternates on tuesdays and thursdays
there's a section that's recorded at the
beginning that kind of explains how to
do seo and then i'll also how the tool
can help you with that and then i come
on live on each one of them to answer
any all questions and that can be
questions about using page optimizer pro
or it can just be about uh seo i mean if
people like what i talk about you know
if they like the concept then they'll
like the tool you know the tool will be
useful for them but if you if you're
like i don't know about this math stuff
or i don't know then that's not your
tool and that's that's totally fine but
i'm still happy to answer any and all
that seo questions that's fantastic
that's fantastic well thank you so much
for coming to my show really appreciated
and i know that is a very early there
and you got up early to actually have a
chat with me uh which is um my you know
the pacific standard time zone
so happy to have you and good luck well
thanks so much for having me i really
appreciate it